# Introduction

Because of how important elections are to maintaining our constitutional republic, and after witnessing numerous attempts to interfere with them, it became apparent that 

When expressing my concern with electronic voting equipment to Republican Party members, I often heard something like: Well, humans can still cheat too. 

It could be wondered... Were these people speaking from experience? 

Besides the most naive individual (bless his heart!), most people understand that cheating, with enough incentives, is not only possible, but rather likely.

It is one thing to point out various instances of election interference and cheating. It is another to also point to safeguards, deterrents, and disincentives against it. Problems usually have solutions.

This short manual intends to share my experiences as well as evidence verified by others, from the Republican Party of Minnesota elections process *before* the general election. 

This election process begins with the all-important precinct caucus usually held in February of a general election year. After caucus, where the first set of delegates are elected, those delegates select the state convention delegates. The overall election process proceeds through to the senate district conventions, congressional district conventions, and state conventions, where candidates are endorsed ahead of the primary elections. 

Cheating can and did occur in 2022 and 2023, as witnessed in critical moments by me, the author. Some of this election interference and cheating has already been made public. Some will be made public for the first time. 

The intent of this guide is to prepare any republican to participate effectively in caucus while holding their neighbors and fellow delegates accountable to: 

1. The United States Constitution
2. The Minnesota Constitution
3. Minnesota Statutes
4. The Republican Party of Minnesota Constitution
5. Bylaws to the Republican Party of Minnesota Constitution
6. The Constitution(s) of the Basic Political Organizing Unit (BPOU)

The term republican (lower case 'r') is important. A republican is anyone who believes in a constitutional republic, in a representative form of government where power is with the people, where the government only derives its power from the consent of the people. The Declaration of Independence is explicit about what can and should happen in the event that government oversteps. The Military also has a role to play to defend the people and constitution against such overreaches. 

If you're reading this, you're probably one of three types of people:

1. Someone who has run caucus before
2. Someone who has attended caucus before
3. Someone who plans to attend caucus for the first time

The first group will have experienced the challenges of prevent cheating and ensuring the elections are done by the book. The second group will have witnessed cheating and likely at times aimed to prevent it or call attention to it. The last group can benefit from the experience and knowledge of the first two groups to ensure their precinct caucus participation is enjoyable and successful. 



